1
Think of the fourth person you saw yesterday. Include them in your novel.

Pick a book. Turn to page seven and note the first three words of the first sentence from that page. Begin a chapter with them.

Google  the term novel ideas. Turn to third page result. Pick a random sentence and start writing your novel.

Call a friend or your mom. Ask them their most memorable vacation. Use it as a backdrop to start your novel.

5
Think of your favorite Disney movie. Imagine the story but set in Your neighborhood. Start writing.

You receive a letter from your first grade teacher. Imagine the contents and start your story.

If your best friend were suddenly teleported to Mumbai, India, what would they do? Consider the details and pen them down.

Someone is leaving you flowers every morning at your doorstep. Think of who it could be and the possible motives. Jot those down- voila, your novel has begun!

You notice a police car from your window chasing a bright orange sports car. What is happening? Who are they chasing? What might it lead to? And that is the opening scene of your bestseller.

10
If your first boss was mistakenly arrested as a suspect in art thievery, what would ensue?

If your pet could talk, what secrets would they tell your neighbors?

Recall your favorite song - your next chapter revolves around it!

Rewrite the plot of the last movie you watched with a time leap of three centuries and the introduction of Albert Einstein via time travel.

Think of a current film star. Include a chance meeting in an elevator with your lead character. Now commence writing.

15
Your lead character just received tickets to a casino in Las Vegas and a check for a million dollars. What could happen next?

A woman staggers dead in front of the lead saying "3.30 bus Oakwood stop". The rest is up to you.

Every third daily journal entry is coming true for our main character's BFF. What could entail for our lead?

A tornado ripped the heroine's home's second storey to shreds. She is now put up at her successful romance novelist mom's upscale apartment. What next?

The lead is stuck in a smoking elevator with a mysterious yogi. Decide their fates now!

20
Include a chapter of your lead character playing your favorite board game with a romantic interest, boss and a BFF.

Introduce the lead character's parents as moving in with him/ her for a week.

Add a murder to your story. It can be a relative or pet.

Insert a twin to one of the lead characters who was pronounced medically unfit to live anywhere except in Tibetan monastery until now!

Add a game night where the lead character is standing next to someone looking very much like Taylor Swift.

25
Open any chapter with a character singing the track 'Circle of Life' from Disney's The Lion King.

Thrown in a visit by the ghost of a famous character. Obviously dead but cheerful and who means no harm!

Add a meddling, well meaning grandma to the plot.

Start the next scene with a movie star.

Include a forced babysitting to two year old rambunctious twins girls who also can look angelic whenever they want!

30
Sneak in a coffee shop conversation.

The deepest conversations happen at the hairstylist- so throw in such a scene into your novel.

Apartment lock out with a unattended stove top. What better event to add drama, tension and crazy antics out of desperation?

Make a character go biking along a scenic trail.

Movie nights with friends can go either way! How would you stage it? Now start writing.

35
Insert an eccentric but lavishly rich great aunt or uncle.

Make one the principal side characters vanish.

Throw a stage performance into the plot.

Think of your favorite song. Recollect or look up the second line. Take any two words and start your next chapter with them.

Introduce a snow blizzard right now and see your story rapidly develop!

40
Announce a pregnancy in your story.

Throw in a wedding announcement into your plot.

Trap your lead character under an awning in a downpour with an exflame and a hated teacher from college-  who are now a couple!

Include an overheard conversation that provides some revelations to the principal character.

Winning the lottery is life changing. Use it to spur your story on!

45
Make a character buy a house.

Add a gym scene to your novel.

Look at the daily headlines. Use the third one to start writing your own version with a twist- a child has to be involved somehow.

Make the lead's parents or BFF plan a trip to Paris!

Nothing jump starts a story like a party. Now commence writing.

50
Make your heroine find a letter penned by her fifteen year self!
